Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of linguistics, computer science, information engineering, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human (natural) languages, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data.

Challenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition, natural language understanding, and natural-language generation.
Natural language processing has its roots in the 1950s. Already in 1950, Alan Turing published an article titled "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence, a task that involves the automated interpretation and generation of natural language, but at the time not articulated as a problem separate from artificial intelligence.


A syndicate is a temporary alliance of businesses that joins together to manage a large transaction, which would be difficult, or impossible, to effect individually. Syndication makes it easy for companies to pool their resources and share risks, as when a group of investment banks works together to bring a new issue of securities to the market. There are different types of syndicates, such as underwriting syndicates, banking syndicates, and insurance syndicates.

Syndicates are usually comprised of companies in the same industry. For example, two pharmaceutical companies may combine their research and development (R&D) teams by creating a syndicate to develop a new drug. Or several real estate companies may form a syndicate to manage a large development. Sometimes banks will form a syndicate to loan a very large amount of money to a single party. Companies also may form a syndicate to manage a specific business venture if the opportunity promises an attractive rate of return (RoR).

Some projects are so large that no single company can have all of the expertise needed to do the job efficiently. This is often the case with large construction projects such as building a stadium, highway, bridge, or railroad. In these situations, companies may form a syndicate so that each firm may apply their specific expertise to the project. For tax purposes, syndicates are generally considered as partnerships or corporations

"421456,How about this report on him https://www.hsgac.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/FOREIGNCORRUPTIONREPORTFINAL710.pdf. He “went” home yesterday really ’late’.
337171,My Biggest Remembrance of @OfficialPDPNig #IRememberPDP #NeverAgainPDP This Road heading to @atiku's home town JADA, Reconstructed by @MBuhari administration, I have a tangible reasons to Vote for Buhari. #NigeriaDecides2019 #NigeriaDecides
298355,Sir please don't forget the military when you enter !!!!!
855421,#16Black is giving back this holiday season! They‚Äôre collecting non perishables for Trinity Klein food pantry. They will be collecting donations at The Edge until December 20th. https://www.trinityklein.org/fpsupport/ #NextLevel #GivingBack"
